today we're going to talking about
search I know you're going to turn blue
uh with they had another lecture on
search those of you who are taking
computer science subjects um You
probably seen it in 601 you'll see it
again at Theory course but we're going
to do something we're going to do it for
a little different purpose I want you to
develop uh some intuition about how
various kinds of search work work and I
want to talk a little bit
about uh search as a model of what goes
on in our heads and toward the end if
there's time I'd like to do a
demonstration for you of something never
before demonstrated to a 6034 class
because it was um only completed uh last
spring and some finishing touches were
um added by me this morning always
dangerous but we'll see what happens
so there's
Cambridge you all recognize it of
course you might want to get from some
starting position s to some goal
position
G so you'll hire a cab and hope for the
best so here's what might
happen not too hot let's move the search
position over starting position over
here I've had cab drivers like this in
New
York but it's not a very good path it's
a it's the path of a thief let's change
the uh way that the search is
done to that of a beginner an honest
beginner
not too
bad now uh let's have a look at how the
search would uh would happen if the cab
driver was a uh PhD in physics now uh
after his third
postto these are not actually traversed
these are just things that the um that
the uh where I was thinking about and
that is the very best of all possible
paths so the thief does a horrible job
the beginner does a pretty good job but
not an optimal job this is the optimal
job as produced by the PhD in physics
after his third post
do so would you like to understand how
those all work the answer of course is
yes so
um I want to talk to you
about proceed procedures that are
different from the way that you solve
this just solve this problem I imagine
that if I said can you please find a
path from s to G you would within a few
seconds find a pretty good path not the
optimal one but a pretty good one using
your
eyes and we're not going to tell you
about how that works because we don't
know how that works but we do know that
uh problem solving with our eyes is an
important part of our total intelligence
and we'll never have have a complete
theory of human intelligence until we
can understand the contributions of the
human visual system to solving everyday
problems like finding a pretty good path
in that
map but alas we can't talk about that
because we don't know how to do
it we're working on it but we don't know
how to do
it so I'm not going to use Cambridge in
my illustrations there too much uh too
much there to work through in a in an
hour so we're going to use this U map
over here which has been Des designed to
illustrate a few important points so you
too can uh you find a path through that
graph pretty easily with your eyes but
uh our programs don't have eyes and they
don't have visually grounded algorithms
so they're going to have to do something
else and the very first kind of search
we want to talk about is called the
British museum approach this is a slur
against uh at least the British museum
if not the entire nation because uh the
way you do a British museum search is
you find every possible path
so it'll be helpful to have a diagram of
all possible paths on the board uh so
we're going to start with a British
museum search and from the starting
position from the starting
position from the starting position it's
clear that you can go from uh s uh to
either A or
B and already there's an important quiz
Point whenever we have these kinds of
problems on a quiz we ask you to develop
the
tree associated with the search in
lexical order so the the nodes there
under s are listed
alphabetically just just to have have an
orderly way of doing it so from a we can
go
either b or
d and another convention uh of the
subject another thing you have to keep
in mind in quizzes is that we don't have
these searches bite their own tail
so I could have said that if I'm at a I
can also go back to S but no path is
ever allowed to to bite itself uh uh to
to bite itself to go around and enter
and and and and and get back to a place
that's already on the
path now if i' gone to B first that
means that I could go here from from B I
can go to either a or
C this is getting fat pretty fast but
let's see
Sab the only place I can go is C and
then to
e sad D without biting my own tail and
going going back to a the only place I
can go is
G
SBA I can only go to D and then to G and
finally SB C I can only go to
E so that is the complete set of paths
as produced by any program that you want
feel uh
you like to ride that finds all possible
paths I haven't been very precise about
how to do that because you don't have to
be can't save much work by being clever
because you have to find
everything so that's the British museum
expansion of the
tree so what have I done I've been
playing around with a map I showed you
an example of a map and pretty soon
you're going to think that um
search is about Maps so before going
even another tiny
step I want to emphasize that search is
not equal to Maps search is about choice
and I happen to illustrate these
searches with maps because they are
particularly cogent but search is not
about Maps it's about the choices you
make when you're trying to make
decisions
so these are Choice the these things I'm
going to be talking with you about today
are choices you make when you explore
the map but you can make other kinds of
choices when you're exploring other
kinds of things and in
fact at the end if there's time I'll
show you how how you do searches when
you're solving problems in a Humanities
class all
right so that's the British museum
algorithm search is not about Maps our
first gold star idea search is about
choice but for our illustration search
is about Maps so the first kind of
search we want to talk about that's
real is depth first
search and the idea of depth first
search is uh that you um Barrel ahead in
a single-minded
way so from s your choices are
A or
B and you always go down the left Branch
by
convention so from s we go to
a from a we have two choices we can go
to either B oh you can go to either yes
b or
d following our electrical
convention after that we can go to C and
after that we can go to E and too bad
for us we're
stuck what we going to do uh we've got
into a dead end All Is
Lost but of course all isn't lost
because we have the we have the choice
of backing up to the place where we last
made a decision and choosing another
Branch so that process is called
variously backup or
backtracking so at this point we would
say ah dead end the first place we find
when we back up the tree where we made a
choice is when we chose B in instead of
D so we go back up there and take the
other
root SB uh s Saad D now goes to G and
we're
done so we're going to make a little
table here of things that we can
embellish uh our basic searches with and
one of the things we can embellish our
basic searches with is this backtracking
idea
now backtracking is not relevant for the
British museum algorithm because you got
to find everything and you can't quit
when you found one
path but you'd always want to use
backtracking with depth first search
because you may plunge on down and miss
the miss the path that gets to the goal
now you might ask
me is backtracking therefore always part
of depth first search and you can read
textbooks that do it either way count on
it if if we give you a search problem on
a quiz we'll tell you whether or not
your search is supposed to use
backtracking we consider it to be an
optional thing it'd be pretty stupid not
to use this optional thing when you're
doing depth first search but we'll
separate these ideas out and call it an
optional
add-on so that's stth first search very
simple now the companion I mean the
natural companion to depth first search
will be breath first search
Reds
first and the way it works is you build
up this tree level by
level and at some point when you scan
across a level you'll find you've
completed the path that goes to the
goal so level by
level s can go to either A or
B A can go either to B or D and B can go
to either a or C so you see what we're
doing we're going level by level and we
haven't hit a level with a goal in it
yet so we've got to keep going note that
we're building up quite a bit of stuff
here quite quite a lot of there's quite
a lot of growth in the size of the path
set that we're keeping in mind at the
next level we have B going to C D going
to G A going to D and C going to e and
now when we scan
across we do hit G so we found a path
with bread first search just as we found
a path with depth first
search now you might say well why don't
you just quit when you hit G
implementation
detail we'll talk about how a sample
implementation you can write it any way
you want but now that we know what these
searches are uh let's speed things up a
little bit
here and uh do a couple of
searches that now have names so the type
the first type will be depth first
boom that's the one that produc the
produces the the the thief uh path and
then we could also do a breath first
search which we haven't tried yet what
are you suppose going to happen is it
going to be fast slow produce a good
path produce a bad path I don't know
let's try it I had to speed it up you
see because it's doing an awful lot of
search
it's generating an awful lot of
paths finally I got a path is it the
best path I don't think so but we're not
going to talk about optimal paths today
we're just going to talk about pretty
good paths euristic
paths oh well let's move the starting
position here in in the middle do you
think breath first search is going to be
stupid I think it's going to be pretty
stupid let's see what
happens it searches a lot to the left
which you would never do with your eye
let me slow that down just to
demonstrate it finds a shorter path
because it's right there in the middle
but it spends a lot of its time looking
off to the left it's pretty
stupid but that's how it works so now
that we've got two examples of searches
uh on on the table uh I'd like to just
write a little flowchart for how the
search might
work because uh if I do that then it'll
be easier for us to see how how what
kind of small difference there are
between the implementations of these
various
searches so what we're going to do is
we're going to going to develop a
waiting list a q a line whatever you
like to call it let's call it a q we
going to develop a q of paths that are
under
consideration so the uh first step in
our algorithm will be to
initialize our Q
and I think what I'll do is I'll
simulate depth first
search on this problem like up there on
the left using this algorithm so I need
to have some way of representing my
paths and what I'm going to do is I'm
going to betray uh my Heritage as a list
programmers because I'm just going to
put these up uh as if they were list s
Expressions so to begin with I just have
one path and it has only one node in it
s that's the whole whole
path so the next thing I I do after I
initialize the Q is
I
extend
first
path on the
Q okay so the when I extend S I get two
paths
I get S goes to
a and I get S goes to B so I take the
first one off the front of the Q and I
put back the two that are produced by
extending that
path now after I've extended the first
path on the Q I have to put those
extended
paths onto the Q i' I I've in here
there's an explicit step where I've
checked to see if I if that first path
is a winner if it's not I extend it and
I have to put those paths onto the
que so I'll say that what I do is I
NQ n
q now I've done one step in this let me
do another step I'm going to take this
first path
off I'm going to extend that
path and where do I put these New Paths
on the Queue if I'm doing depth first
search
well I I want to work with the paths
that I've just generated I'm taking this
plunge down deep into the into the
search
tree so since I want to I want to keep
going down into the stuff that I've just
generated where then do I want to put
these New Paths at the end of the queue
don't think so because there going to be
a long time getting there I'm going to
put them on the front of the
queue so
for depth first
search I want to put them on the front
of the
Q and that's why s
a b goes here then sad
D and then that's SB
so SB is still there that's still a
valid possibility but now I've stuck two
paths in front of it both of the ones I
generated by taking a path off the front
of the queue discovering that it doesn't
go to the goal extending it and putting
those back on the
Queue so I might as well complete this
uh illustration here while I'm at it I
take the Sab off sa a b and I can go
only there to see
but of course I keep
sad and
SB on the
Q so now I take the front off the Q
again and I get s a b c e and not to
forget sad
D and
SB I take the first one off the que
doesn't go to the goal I try to extend
it but there's nothing there I've got
reached a dead end so in this operation
all I'm doing is taking the front one
off the Q and shortening the
Q we're almost home now I take sad off
the Q and I get s a d g and of course I
still have
SB but now the next time I visit the
situation I discover vared in step here
in the in in that first step I discover
a path that actually does get to the
goal and I'm
done so each time
around I initialize the queue I check to
see if I'm done if not I extend I take
the extensions and put them somewhere on
the Queue and
then I go back
in and in here there's a buried test
which checks to to see if we're
done so that's how uh the depth first
search algorithm works and now would we
have to start all over again if we did
breath first
search NOP same
algorithm all the code we've got needs
one line replaced one line changed what
do I have to do different in order to
get a breath first search out of this
instead of a depth first
search Tanya change put it on the que
and where do I put it on the que she
says to change
the back put it on the
back so with breath first
search all I have to do is put it on the
back there you
go
now if we were content uh with a
inefficient search and didn't care much
about how good our path was would be
done and we could go home but we uh are
a little concerned about uh the
efficiency of our search and we would
like a pretty good path so we're going
to have to to stick around for a little
while now you may have
noticed up there in that um development
of
the breath first
search that the
algorithm is incredibly stupid
why is the algorithm incredibly
stupid Kai what do you think you can't
tell whether it's getting closer or
further away from the goal it certainly
can't tell whether it's getting closer
or further away from the goal and uh
we're going to deal with that a minute
but it's even stupider than
that why is it stupid put your in
yeah the same no Twice Dyan said it's
extending paths that go to the same node
more than once let's see what Dylan's
talking
about down here it extends a but it's
already extended a up
there down here it extends a path that
goes to B and it's already extended the
path that goes to B over here it extends
a it looks at a path it could extend a
path that went through C but it's
already got a path that goes through
C so all of these paths are duplicated
and we're still going through them so
that's incredibly
stupid so what we're going to do is
we're going to amend our algorithm just
a little
bit and we're not going to extend the
first path on the Q or rather yeah we're
not going to extend the first path on
the Q
unless
final
node
never
before
extended so what we're going to do is
we're going to look to see if there
we've got this path and we're going to
extend it and it's got a final node if
we've ever extended a path that goes to
that final node and it was a final node
on that path and we're not going to do
it again so we got to keep a
list of places that have already been
that have already been the last piece of
a path that was
extended we got that it's a little
awkward to say it because it's it's the
last node we care about if a
path terminates in a note
and if some other path previously
terminated in that note and got extended
then we're not going to do it again
because it's a waste of
time all
right now let's see if this actually
helps yeah I use extended list let's see
um well gee
we got that uh plac in the center there
let's just repeat the previous
search wow taking a long time but notice
that uh it did uh it put 103 paths back
on the Queue now let's add the
filter and try again
a lot
less so we'll speed this
up and we'll start way over here and you
remember how tedious that search was but
now we'll repeat it uh with this uh this
list boom there it
is that's all because we didn't do that
silly thing of going back through
through uh the final node a final node
that's already been gone
through all right so you would never not
want to do this and we better list this
as another
option doesn't help with the British
museum algorithm because nothing helps
with a British museum algorithm does it
help with depth first yes does it help
with breadth first yes do we do
backtracking with breath first no
because we're
looking we we backtracking can't do us
any
good okay so we're almost uh we're
almost home except that um that search
to started in the middle still pretty
stupid both the uh breadth first version
and the depth first
version are going off to the left and we
would never do that with our eyes in any
case so the next thing we want to do is
we want to have ourselves a slightly
more informed search by taking into
consideration whether we seem to be
getting
anywhere so in general it's a good thing
to get closer to where we want to
go so in general if we've got a choice
of going to a node that's close to the
goal or a node that's not so close to
the goal we'll always want to go the one
that's close to the
goal and as soon as we add that to uh
what we're
doing we have another kind of
search which goes by the name of hill
climbing and it's just like death ver
search except that instead of using
lexical order to break ties we're going
to break ties According to which node is
closer to the goal all
right now I went to some trouble to talk
to you about this inced list and having
gone to that trouble I'm now going to
ignore it not because it isn't a good
idea but because trying to keep track of
everything in the example kind of get us
confused and the example won't work out
right and a small example and all that
so put the put the ining thing aside CU
list aside and think instead just about
the value of going in the direction
that's getting us closer to the
goal so in hill climbing search just
like a depth first search we have a and
b and we're still going to list them
lexically on the under underneath the
parent node but now uh which one is
closer to the
goal well this time B is closer to the
goal than a so instead of following the
depth first course which would take us
down through a we're going to go to the
one that's closest which goes through B
and B can go either go to a or
C
right yeah sure B is uh six units away
from the goal and a is about seven plus
uh not drawn exactly at scale use the
numbers not your
eyes
so now what are now where are we it's
symmetric so A and C are both equally
far from the goal so now we're going to
use electrical order to break the tie so
now from uh
s ba
a uh we'll go to D and now which is
closest to the goal well that's the only
choice we have so now we have no choice
but to go down to the goal so that's
the that's the hill climbing way of
doing the search and notice at this time
there's no
backtracking it's a it's a little bit
it's not the it's not the optimal path
it's not the best path at least there's
no backtracking but that's that's not
always true that's just an artifact of
this particular
example so do you think hill climbing
would produce faster
search I think
so so let's see what happens when the
when we add these things uh one at a
time first uh let's turn off our ined
list our extended list I
mean we turned off our extended list and
we're going to do first again just for
the sake of
comparison it produces a very roundabout
path with 48 and
cuings now let's switch over to hill
climbing and what do you think you think
it produce a f a straighter path few
were in
queing
boom you wouldn't not want to do that
would you if you've got some kind of
urtic that tells you that you're getting
close to the goal you should use it now
it's easy to modify my samp my example
over there so that so that getting close
to the goal gets you trapped in in a
blind alley on e that's easy to do but
that's just an artifact of the example
in general you want to go along the path
that gets you closer to the goal so
that's 23 I don't know let's see if
using the extended list filter does any
good yeah still 23 so in that particular
case the in Qing
list the uh the uh expansion extension
list didn't actually do us any good
because we're kind of driving so so so
directly toward the
goal okay so that's that now let's see
is there any analog
to well we might say that this is a yet
another choice or yet another way of
distinguishing these searches and that
is is it
uh is it an informed search
is it making use of any kind of euristic
information certainly British museum is
not depth is not breath is not and now
let's consider what we got for for hill
climbing would we want to use
backtracking sure would we want to use
an inced list
sure and it is informed because it's
taking advantage of this extra
information may not be in your problem
it's it's often case you got this
information in a map your problem may
not have any
urised measurement distance to the goal
which case you can't do it but if you
got it you should use
it oh yeah now there's one more uh and
I've already kind of given it the way by
having it on my
chart it's called beam search and just
as hill climbing is a analog of um death
first search Beam Beam search is is a
complement or addition of U and an
informing Ur ristic to breath first
search so what you do is you start off
just like breath first search
but you say I'm going to
limit the number of paths I'm going to
consider at any level to some small
fixed number like in this case how about
two so I'm going to say that I have a
beam width of two for my beam
search otherwise I proceed just like
bre first search BD
a and now I've got that stupid thing
where I'm duplicating my nose because
I'm forgetting about the ined
list but to illustrate beam search what
I'm going to do now is I'm going to take
all these paths I've got at the second
level and I'm only going to keep the
best two that's my beam width and the
best two are the two that get closest to
the goal so of those four B C A and D
which two get closest to the goal I'll B
and D so these guys are trimmed off I'm
only keeping two at every level so now
uh going down from B and D I have at the
next level C and G and now I found the
goal so I'm done we could do that here
too we can choose a a beam search
not bad oh but it really let's see let's
try this thing from the middle let's
slow my speed down a little bit now we
going to see anything going off to the
left like we did with ordinary breath
first
search no because it's smart it doesn't
say I want to go to a place that's
further away from my goal all
right so now let's see uh maybe we can
go back to our algorithm now and talk
about that in queing
mechanism and talk about hill
climbing can I use the B same basic
search mechanism just change that one
line again yes how do I add the New
Paths to the Q this
time well it's very much like hill
climbing right so I want to add them to
the
front but with one little flourish
what's the flourish chrisna what do you
think remember I want to I want to use
my urtic information so I not only add
them to the front but amongst the ones
I'm adding to the front what do I do
check the distance check the distance
and and how do you arrange them uh the
minimum first yeah so you just you can
put the minimum first if you like but
let's sort them we'll sort them that'll
keep everything straight so hill
climbing is
first uh is uh
front uh
sorted and finally how about beam what
do we do with beam search to uh add them
to the que well doesn't matter where we
add them because all we're going to do
is we're going to keep
the W
best so with beam
we'll just abbreviate that by saying
keep W
best all
right so now you have some of the uh
basic uh searches uh in your uh toolkit
there's one more that's sometimes talked
about say we got depth breadth best and
beam one more is
best best for search it's um a variant
we let me go on it's a variant where you
say I've got this tree it's got a bunch
of uh paths that terminate in leaves let
me just always work on the leaf node
that's closest to the goal so it can
kind of skip around a little bit from
one place to another because as it
pursues One path it may not do very well
and some other path quite distant in the
tree will become the best
one we've actually seen an instance of
that
in uh in the integration program it's
capable skipping all over the place
because it's always taking the easiest
problem in the search tree in the Andor
tree working on that so that's best for
search now you can do these sorts of
things in continuous spaces too and
you've done the mathematics of that in
1802 or
something uh but in continuous spaces
the hill climbing uh sometimes leads to
problems or doesn't do very very
well uh what kind of a problem can you
encounter in a continuous space uh with
u with hill
climbing
well how would you do hill climbing in a
continuous space let's let's say
we're in the mountains and a big fog has
come up we're trying to get to the top
of the hill before we freeze to
death and we take uh a few steps North a
few steps east west and South using our
compass and we check to see which
direction seems to be doing the best job
of getting us moving upward and that's
that's our hill climbing approach right
we have explored four directions we can
go we pick the best one then from there
we pick four try all those pick the best
one and away we go we've got ourselves a
hill climbing algorithm what's wrong
with
it or what can be wrong with it
sometimes it works just
fine yes you might get stuck in a local
maximum yeah you might get stuck in a
local maximum so problem
number problem letter a is that if this
is your
space may look like that and you may get
stuck on a local
maximum is there any other kind of
problem that can come
up well all depends on what the space is
like here's a problem where the space
has local
Maxima now a lot of people have been
killed on Mount
Washington when the fog comes up and
they do freeze to death
why hell climbing the reason they
freezes death
is is hill climbing fails them and they
can't get to the top to the ranger
station and the reason is that there are
large Lawns on the shoulders of Mount
Washington come quite
flat so it's the telephone pole
problem so that
space looks like this oh this isn't what
Mount Washington looks like but it's
it's the telephone pole problem so when
you're wandering around
here the idea of trying a few directions
picking the one that's best doesn't help
any because it's flat so that can be a
problem with hill
climbing now there's one more problem
with hill climbing uh that uh most
people don't know about
but it works like
this this is a particularly acute
problem in high dimensional spaces I'll
illustrate here just in two and I'm
going to switch from a uh a regular kind
of View to a contour
map so my contour map is going to betray
the
presence of a Sharp
gridge along the 45°
line and now you see how you can get in
trouble
there you get in trouble because if you
take a step in each
Direction every Direction takes you
downhill and you think you're at the top
so suppose you're right here and you go
north that takes you south over a
contour line that takes you down over a
contour line if you go south that also
takes you down down over contour lines
likewise going West and East all appear
to be taking you down whereas in fact
you're climbing a ridge and that's that
contour line is the highest that I've
shown so sometimes you can get fooled
not stuck but fooled into thinking
you're at the top when you're actually
not now is this um this is this is a
model of something this this subject is
about modeling intelligence and this is
a kind
of algorithm you frequently need in
order to build an intelligent
system but do we have uh any kind of
search happening in our
heads or does this some is it are if
we're going to model what goes on inside
our heads do we have to model any kind
of searching uh in order to uh do the
kinds of things that we we humans
do I suppose so anytime we make a plan
we're actually evaluating a bunch of
choices and seeing how they
work let me see if I can illustrate it
another
way so this is a A system that I showed
you a little bit of last time and shoot
I I might as well review uh one or two
things
here I showed you a MC Beth story this
is the story I showed
you and if you had this in a Humanities
class the simplest questions that you
might might be asked is uh why did uh
McDuff uh kill MC Beth down there at the
bottom did I demonstrate the answering
of questions last time or just the
development of the graph I can't
remember but we'll do it again anyway so
this is some somewhat stylized
English just so you'll know it doesn't
have to be stylized English this is
English that's um made available to the
Genesis system by way of something
called a story
workbench there's no free lunch either
you can use your human resources to
rewrite the plot in third grade English
or you can use your human resources to
take a more natural adult type version
of the story and decorate it with
annotations that make it possible to
absorb it so just this summer in a
miracle of Summer Europe uh Brett van uh
one of you uh connected these two
systems together so we can now work with
the stories that are expressed in pretty
natural English everything in our system
is expressed in
English including Common Sense knowledge
like if somebody kills you you're dead
but more uh more importantly for today's
illustration uh that reflective level
knowledge that knowledge about what what
revenge is so here you are in you're in
the humanities class and someone says uh
what's really going on in the story not
the details of who kills whom but is
there a pic Victory does somebody have a
success is there an act of Revenge right
these are all kinds of things you might
be asked about in in some kind of
humanities
class so let me uh fire up the Genesis
system pray for internet connectivity
uh launch the system uh on a read of
that MC Beth story that I showed you
just a moment
ago at the moment it's uh absorbing
information about background knowledge
and about reflective level knowledge and
all that sort of
thing it's building itself a this thing
we call an elaboration graph uh not
quite there yet it's still reading
background knowledge
now it's reading MC Beth it's building
its little elaboration
graph same thing you saw last time
except except not quite see that stuff
down at the bottom those are higher
level Concepts that it's managed to find
in the MC Beth story so it's found a
Revenge how did it do
that it
searched it had a description of what a
Revenge is and I look to see if that
pattern was exhibited in the elaboration
graph so in a combination of things that
were said explicitly and things that
were produced by kneejerk GI then rules
the elaboration graph was sufficiently
instantiated that the Revenge pattern
could be
found well that's interesting uh peric
Victory is a little harder you'd
probably get an A if you said oh there's
a peric victory in
here yeah there it
is so we'll blow that up a little bit so
you can see what it is you know what a
peric victory
is it's something it's a situation where
everything seems to be going good at
first and then not so hot so MC Beth
wants to be
king down here and eventually that leads
to becoming King but too bad for MC Beth
because eventually he gets killed in
consequence so it's a peric victory all
that produced by search programs that
are looking through this
gra now once you've got the capability
of doing that of course uh then um you
can find all sorts of things and you can
report them in English but more
interestingly you can ask answer
questions so why did Mac it cares not a
hoot about
capitalization on a common sense level
it looks like Dr gent thinks McDuff
kills Mac because mcde angers McDuff on
a reflective level it looks like like Dr
J thinks MCD kill MC death is part of X
of mistake be Victory and revenge pretty
courting speech output but you see the
point how did they get the stuff on the
common sense
level same way all of those programs
that build gold tre's report answers the
questions it's just looking locally
around in the connections in the gold
tree how do they get the stuff on the
reflective level by reporting on the
searches that produced uh um information
it it does that by looking for higher
level thoughts about its own thoughts
and Reporting in which of those higher
level thoughts the incident in ask about
actually
occurs so uh let's see just for
fun we might be interested in why uh MC
Beth
murdered Duncan wouldn't this be handy
if you hadn't actually read the play and
here it is you got to write that
paper on a common sense level it looks
like I'll pull the plug on that because
that's just
annoying yeah pretty good MC Beth wants
to be king and Duncan is the king so
let's see why did MC Beth become
king oh yeah
I oh it won't answer the question unless
I spell it right
okay that wouldn't have been I wouldn't
be able to show that to you last until
last spring in fact I wouldn't have been
able to show you this today
until last week with a tweak this
morning because we've just now connected
the speech output the the language
output to Boris
cass's parser system which is running in
Reverse in order to generate that
English so that's something has never
before been seen by any eyes but
me and so that will conclude what we
have to do today